[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> I'm Dr. Theresa Bullard.
And this is "Mystery Teachings."
Can we heal our bodies
using pure vibration?
Vibrational medicine
is a growing field.
More people are using
emerging technologies
based on vibrational
energy as ways
to diagnose and treat
various issues in the bodies.
The basic idea behind
vibrational medicine
is that a healthy body has
certain homeostasis, where
the vibrations and
frequencies within the body
are in harmony with each other.
The body should be
synchronized like a symphony.
And that symphony should
be harmonious and pleasant.
But when disease sets in,
it creates disharmony.
Vibrations clash and
there is discord.
Scientific theories,
including string theory
and the holographic model,
align with this idea
of using vibrational
healing methods as a way
to bring the body into
greater harmony and alignment.
Our physical bodies
are constantly
emitting electricity, magnetic
energy, and biophotons.
We are electromagnetic beings.
We know that our brain creates
an electromagnetic field that
can be detected with
EEG and MEG devices.
Interestingly, the heart
produces an even larger energy
field, with an electric field
that is 60 times greater than
that of the brain, while the
magnetic field is a hundred
times greater than the brain's.
With today's
detector sensitivity,
the heart field has been
measured up to three feet,
or one meter out from the body,
although it is likely much
larger.
Today, we have new
technologies that
are gaining popularity in the
field of vibrational medicine.
There are all kinds of
biofeedback machines, where
we can place our hand
on a plate and scan
for thermal conductivity,
measure heart rate variability,
and other frequencies.
Measuring these
signals can help us
to identify inharmonious
frequencies in the body.
The idea is that we can
also treat those harmonies
by feeding in the proper
vibrational signals needed
to restore the system
to homeostasis.
Light and color are also
used in vibrational medicine.
Today, we are seeing more and
more therapeutic applications
of LEDs and light lasers.
Electromagnetic energy, such as
ultraviolet, visible, infrared,
and other frequencies, affect
matter at different scales.
Photons generally interact
at the atomic level,
exciting electrons or even
ionizing them out of orbit.
Magnetic resonance devices
have also been made available.
It's interesting that the
magnetic field of the heart
extends three feet
in all directions.
This is also the
range of what we
consider to be our personal
space within our working aura.
The aura is in constant motion.
And it is flowing, not
only physical energies,
like magnetic and
electric fields,
but also the subtle energies
of etheric, the elements,
the dimensions, the
chakras, and more.
The purpose and action
of this workflow
is to pull in all the energies
from the spiritual realms
and from the universe
into and through our body.
As it moves through
us, it then flows out
through the toroidal
structure of our aura,
out into our environment.
Anything that is happening
within our body, mind, and soul
is reflected in our aura.
Western medicine focuses
primarily on the physical body,
as if that's all there is.
But in metaphysics,
using the tree of life
as a map or blueprint, we
see that the physical world
is the bottom of
the tree, receiving
all the energies
from the Ein Sof,
or the source, down through
the other nine Sefirot,
into manifestation in
the physical world.
Through this, we
see that the cause
is almost always happening
on higher levels of the tree.
While the physical
manifestation shows the effect,
the body is receiving
the imbalanced energies
from higher levels.
It is within our subconscious
patterns, our mind, thoughts,
emotions, and soul where the
true imbalances are typically
rooted.
These imbalances affect
our choices and actions,
thereby getting
pulled into the body
and then reflected
out into the aura.
We can read all of
these energy systems
without the need for
vibrational devices.
We have been doing this
for thousands of years
within spiritual traditions.
Mystery schools train
people to become
healers, who can sense
the subtle energies
within the field.
Some people are born
with such gifts.
For example, Edgar
Cayce, who was
known as the Sleeping
Prophet, would
diagnosed people's illnesses
while in a state of trance.
He would then successfully
prescribe natural remedies
to address the issues.
But regardless of whether or
not we are born with such gifts
turned on, we all have
these capabilities.
And through proper training,
we can turn them on over time.
Such traditions have been
around for a long time.
Yet now we also
have technologies
that we didn't have before.
How can these technologies be
used and what are their limits?
Dr. Masaru Emoto was very
dedicated to the field
of vibrational medicine.
In his book, "Truth
of Hado" he writes,
All substances and
phenomenon have
their own unique
magnetic resonance.
This resonance field is
due to what he called Hado.
"Hado" is a Japanese
term that relates
to the intrinsic
vibrational essence.
Emoto described Hado as
the specific vibrating wave
generated by the
electrons orbiting
the nucleus of an atom.
But really, Hado is much
more than that, as we'll see.
Emoto and his team
conducted many studies
using magnetic
resonance analyzers
to identify imbalances
within organs and tissues.
When a harmful vibrational
signal was detected,
they would use the
device to imprint water
with a neutralizing vibration.
This imprinted vibrational
water was then taken
as a homeopathic
remedy to neutralize
the disharmony in the body.
However, Dr. Emoto
discovered the state
of the practitioner
greatly affected
the operation of the
device and their ability
to get consistent results.
To get consistent
results, it really
depends on having a
well-trained operator who
could hold the right vibrational
state within themselves
and their mind.
Dr. Emoto used water
as a medium to show
how our vibrational
essence impacts materia.
He demonstrated this phenomenon
with his famous photographs
of water crystals,
that were imprinted
with either harmonious or
disharmonious energies.
Positive thoughts, like
love, generated harmony,
while negative thoughts, like
hate, generated disharmony.
To Dr. Emoto, these
water crystals
were a visual display of Hado.
Our bodies are 70% water.
His work shows that our words,
our thoughts, and our emotions
have an impact.
Dr. Emoto rediscovered this.
But it is not actually new.
Alchemists have known for
ages that the alchemist
and their experiment
are interconnected.
They realized how
the vibrational state
of the alchemist affects
of whatever they're working on.
They understood the
entangled nature of reality.
As an alchemist took any
materia, such as water,
or an herb, or a mineral,
through the alchemical stages,
they understood that
everything they did to it,
they were also
doing to themselves.
There is a strong affinity
between the alchemist
and the object of
their experiment.
And every process
it went through,
they didn't see themselves
as separate observers.
True alchemy is consistent with
quantum physics principles,
such as the observer
effect and entanglement.
We are all interconnected.
The operator, the
observer, matters.
The observer and the observed
are entangled together.
We have to create the right
state of being inwardly.
Our thoughts alone can spoil
the alchemical operations.
Thus, we must be of
pure mind and not
allow emotions or attachments
to interfere with our work.
Then we must be able to
hold that coherence state,
to have the right vibrational
field for transformation
to take place regardless
of the tools we use.
The machine that Dr. Emoto used,
as well as other technologies,
such as the Rife machine and
various radionics devices,
can be effective when used
on generally healthy people
to maintain homeostasis.
They are capable of making minor
adjustments within a mostly
balanced state.
However, for someone who
is way out of balance,
and disease has already
set in the body,
most of these machines
are not operating
at the level of
intensity and power
needed to shift the
vibration back into harmony.
That's not to say
they can't get there.
But there are safety
laws and regulations
that restrict such
use in many countries.
For example, it's
said that Nikola Tesla
used his electric
current devices
to treat people who
had various ailments.
But the intensity
of his devices had
to be set to such a
high power, the people
reported getting burned
from the strong electricity.
His treatments were effective.
But most people don't want
to get burned in the process.
Thus, vibrational
devices used today
tend to operate
within the safe range.
They can still be helpful.
But the effects are
much more subtle
and mostly good for maintaining
homeostasis, rather than
treating acute disease.
The body knows how to
self-heal when given
the right input and energy.
But once the system gets
too far out of balance,
the cells become
confused or too toxic.
And the subtle energy
might not work,
because the body's
program is too confused
to respond in the right way.
What's more, the cause of
the disease or imbalance
may be happening
at higher levels.
These vibrational devices
use physical energy.
Thus, they can work
on physical levels.
But when the root of the problem
is coming from higher planes,
such as mental,
emotional, or etheric,
we need higher vibrational
methods to heal the cause.
Thus, we need to treat
beyond the physical.
So how do we access
stronger methods of healing
in a safe way?
We've observed that
all healing requires
a combination of factors.
First, the healer
or practitioner
must set the correct energy
flow by bringing their energy
into a coherent state.
The healer or practitioner
needs proper training
to be able to do that and
to hold the coherent state
for extended periods of time.
The second ingredient
needed is for the client
to be willing to get better.
The recipient has to
be ready to say yes
to healing, to letting go of old
ways that are not serving them,
and to making the changes that
need to be made at all levels,
physically, emotionally,
mentally, and spiritually.
We need to shift our behaviors
and lifestyle choices in order
to sustain healing.
The third factor is
the tool that mediates
between the healer and client.
It has to be the
right kind of tool,
a tool that delivers
the right kind of energy
and holds a pure vibration.
Many shamanic tools were
used in ancient times, things
like herbal remedies, smudging
with sage smoke, medicine
totems, sacred items, shamanic
wands, and other tools
made from nature.
And then there are
higher vibrational tools,
such as hermetic, alchemical,
and esoteric tools
created over the millennia
by advanced mystery
school initiates, such as
Leonardo da Vinci, Paracelsus,
MacGregor Mathers,
Nikola Tesla, and others.
Sometimes a healer
may also choose
not to use any physical tool,
other than their own ability
to flow energy through their
hands, voice, movements,
and aura.
If the practitioner
is truly in touch
and has higher
levels of training
in how to properly work with
numbers, letters, and sounds,
they might use
holy words or words
of power, chanted or toned
at the right frequencies
and rhythm to deliver
powerful healing energy.
If they have tuned their own
self to be a pure vessel,
they can eliminate
the use of a tool
and bring divinity straight in.
They can direct that
vibrational energy
straight into the client,
to awaken the divinity
within the client, so that
the client can self-heal.
But this direct method
only really works
at full power,
when they can truly
hold that field of divinity,
from the awareness of I
am god, serving
another god or goddess.
The energy they
bring through might
feel subtle, but in this
case that is usually
because it is at
such a high vibration
that it is beyond our
typical sensory range.
The energy conducted by a
well-trained healer-initiate
contains all levels
of the spectrum,
all the way from source.
This kind of energy
can help transmute
and heal the root
cause of most issues
that reside in the mental
and emotional realms, when
the recipient is
truly ready to heal.
When the root cause is healed,
then the body can heal.
A machine or device,
on the other hand,
mediates physical energy.
It comes through as either
electromagnetic or scalar
waves.
And it's not pure source
energy because the machine
itself doesn't have
the soul with which
to bring through such
higher vibrational energies.
But it can deliver physical
energies that are already here
and serves to focus them or tune
into just the right vibrations
needed for restoring
physical homeostasis.
We cannot take ourselves and
our own willingness to shift out
of the equation.
A lot of people look to devices
or to healers and doctors
for a quick fix.
They don't want to change
anything in their life.
They just want the
symptoms to go away.
They're looking for someone
to take away the problem.
But they're not
taking responsibility.
No true healing can
happen this way.
We can't look for anything
outside of us to be our saviour
or a magic bullet to
take away our problems.
We must be willing
to do the inner work,
to shift on the inner planes,
as the inner, so the outer.
Even if our physical
symptoms get resolved,
if the higher planes
haven't been healed,
then we will inevitably
manifest the same issue again.
We must move toward accessing
a wider range of frequencies
and at higher levels in order
to make that lasting shift
within the inner plane.
What are some ways we
can access this wider
range of frequencies?
As humans, we are comprised of
a huge range of frequencies,
both physical and spiritual.
We are spirit, mind, soul,
ether, light, sound, emotion,
materia, and more.
We are multidimensional and
multivibrational beings.
Since ancient times, one
method for vibrational healing
that has been used around
the world and across cultures
is sound healing.
The human auditory
system can perceive
10 octaves of sound vibration.
That is a large
bandwidth, 10 times larger
than our visual capacity.
Medicine men and women
of ancient tribes
learned to use
instruments as tools
to vibrate the body of the
person who needed healing
into an altered state, hopefully
into a more harmonious state.
These sound healers needed to
be initiated and authorized
by the tribal lineage to use
the sacred instruments in such
a way.
And these instruments
were created
in a very specific
and sacred way
when they were intended to
be used for healing purposes.
It was not just about being
able to play good music.
The healer needed to be trained
as a conduit for spirit,
so that they could deliver the
proper vibrations required.
They also needed to
be able to perceive
the energies of
the body and soul
of that unique individual
receiving healing.
They also needed to have
an intimate relationship
with the spirit of
the sacred instrument.
Rhythmic music and chants can
very quickly entrain the brain,
harmonizing the
hemispheres and shifting us
into altered states
of consciousness,
to receive at deeper levels.
Sound can also move and shape
matter on a molecular level.
This has been well demonstrated
since at least the 1960s
and '70s, from the work of
Dr. Hans Jenny and those
who have followed his research
in the field of cymatics.
But it was known to
the ancients as well.
After all, every spiritual
tradition around the world
has some kind of creation
story that involves sound.
Different vibrational
energies work
at different frequency ranges.
And these will interact with
matter in different scales.
When it comes to
healing, we want
to reach homeostasis, which is
a state of balance and harmony,
with everything in
its proper rhythm,
containing the right
amount of charge and so on.
This requires the use of a
wide range of frequencies.
Health is about balance at
all levels of the system.
So what does it take to
get into true healing,
to find and maintain that
balance in body, mind,
and soul?
To achieve such balance,
we must treat the mind.
This is where most of our
problems really start.
Rather than treating
just the physical level,
we need to heal
our mind and soul.
How do we do that?
The Kabbalistic tree of life
gives us a blueprint for life
and helps us to understand
how things manifest.
It also gives us clues for
balancing and achieving
true healing.
The three-dimensional
tree has four pillars,
known as the four watchtowers.
These relate to our
immune system, the defense
against disease and negativity.
This three-dimensional
tree is also our DNA.
The four pillars relate to the
four elements, earth, water,
air, and fire.
And as the tree rotates, it
cycles through the elements.
Each element has its own cycle.
For example, we
see this in water,
as it cycles through the phases
of gas, and liquid, and solid.
Each of the four
elements similarly
goes through its own
phases and cycles.
They're all cycling
on the planet,
constantly in motion,
each in a different way.
They all cycle.
Similarly, we go through
phases and cycles.
In alchemy, there are four major
phases called Nigredo, Albedo,
Citrinitas, and Rubedo.
Nigredo is the process
of decomposition
and breaking down of impurities.
Albedo is about purification
and raising vibration.
Citrinitas is the transmutation
and enlightenment of the self.
While Rubedo is the ultimate
completion of the great work.
We are all meant to be
continuously cycling
through these
phases in our life.
Another issue we face
in bringing ourselves,
and our four pillars, and the
immune system in the balance
is that most people are focused
solely on the earth's pillar
and are unaware of the rest.
99% of our attention
tends to be on earth,
on the physicality of things.
We are not taking into
account the other elements
of our being.
And as a result, our
pillars aren't balanced.
Complete balancing
of the four pillars
would bring us to a place
of consciously using
our full brain capacity
and DNA potential.
In today's world, most
people are not even
using a fraction of
their tree of life.
We are only consciously aware
of the tip of the iceberg,
of what is happening around us.
We only use maybe
5% to 10% of our DNA
to actively code for the
proteins that build the body.
And we have huge
potential within us,
that is dormant and
waiting to be activated.
In order to expand into
our full potential,
we must come into balance
with all four pillars
What are these four
pillars of our being?
Well, earth is
our physical life.
Water is emotion and intuition.
Air is mind and thoughts.
Fire is passion,
will, and purpose.
And in the center
of this structure
is the middle pillar,
the seed of divinity
and our direct
connection to source.
Our goal, when balancing these,
is to come into the middle,
to live in the middle
pillar, with all four
elements active and balanced.
This means both
being aware of them
and living a lifestyle
that supports all of them
in balance and good operation.
When we do this, we are
healthy, emotionally, mentally,
and physically, with a sense of
our true purpose and actively
expressing our gifts
and creative spark.
And when we have all four
pillars active and balanced,
then our immune
system will be strong.
We will live in the
middle pillar, connected
to our divinity and accessing
limitless potential.
If we could harness source
energy within our DNA,
as the tree of life indicates,
and as alchemists of old agree,
then we could be self-healing
and self-generating.
We could be consciously using
100% of our brain capacity,
such as depicted in
the movie "Lucy."
We could gain
superhuman abilities
as our brain
becomes more active,
abilities like telepathy,
telekinesis, clairvoyance,
and so on.
They would become commonplace.
Maybe we could even
become, like Dr. Strange,
harnessing time and space.
What is the key to accomplishing
such superhuman feats?
Dr. Emoto's conclusion, after
all his studies and research,
was that all things lie
within your own consciousness.
The concept of Hado corresponds
with what the alchemists have
known for thousands of years.
It is the core
essence of source,
as it flows into our
physical atoms and DNA.
This source vibration,
in the physical,
is within our own consciousness.
The key to healing and
wielding this vibration within
is what the alchemists
referred to as the secret fire.
Modern-day alchemist
Dennis William Hauck
says the alchemists
believed that the driving
force behind the
evolution of matter,
the connection between mental
and physical reality, was fire.
But this is not typical fire.
The alchemists talked about
different grades or types
of fire.
In particular, they
mentioned four types.
A Benedictine monk,
who practiced alchemy
in the late 18th century, by the
name of Antoine-Joseph Pernety,
called these four types
elementary fire, secret fire,
central fire, and
celestial fire.
Elementary fire is the fire
we are all familiar with.
Secret fire is
higher consciousness.
Pernety said this heat is very
different within the generation
of the individuals,
of the three kingdoms.
It sounds a lot like Dr.
Emoto's concept of Hado.
Then the central fire is
lodged in the center of matter.
It is tenacious and
innate in matter.
It engenders matter.
They called it God's
signature within matter.
Finally, the celestial
fire is the highest grade.
It is the pure power
of divine will,
which connects to
material density
through the central fire.
What does all this mean?
In essence, alchemists sought
to harness the secret fire,
that power of higher
consciousness,
in order to access
the central fire
or divine spark within
matter and draw it out.
They believed that
through this process,
they could transform matter into
its ultimate perfected state.
Paracelsus wrote, "Know, then,
that the ultimate and also
the primal matter of
everything is fire.
This is the key that
locks the chest.
It is this which makes
manifest whatever
is hidden in anything."
This fire must operate
on the quantum level,
within the zero point
field, the ether,
or Akasha discussed elsewhere.
Pernety said it is specifically
the central fire, contained
within the center of matter,
that produces or engenders
matter.
This is the smallest
building block of matter.
And this building block is the
divine spark, the god seed,
the core essence
from the source,
as its will touches
the material realm.
This central fire is a
single unit or quantum
of divine will, a particle
of god consciousness.
This particle is smaller than
any other particle we know of,
far smaller and of higher
energy than anything
current technologies
can observe.
It exists at the quantum
scale, near the Planck length,
the bridge between the quantum
vacuum and the material realm,
where consciousness
and matter unite.
On the tree of life, we
find this central fire
within the middle pillar.
This is the central
core of any atom.
This particle of consciousness
is within the nuclei.
It acts as a portal through
which divine consciousness
enters into manifestation.
It is the essence of
source within this world.
It has the seed of
divinity within it.
This seed is something that we,
as conscious and aware beings,
can tap into by using our own
secret fire of consciousness
to reach it.
This allows us to impact matter.
From a quantum
physics perspective,
we might imagine
that our thoughts
send particles of
consciousness toward whatever
we are observing.
Those consciousness particles
shift the quantum state,
causing the wave
function to collapse.
This is the mechanism or
means by which we can direct
consciousness to impact matter.
Because those
consciousness particles
carry that pure
essence of source,
they are directed by will,
which directs the mind.
Think of will as a
force of creation
that mediates and
directs consciousness.
It is at this quantum level
that pure essence of source
comes together with the pure
essence of physical density,
thereby changing it
to a new vibration
and shifting its state.
The shift happens when source
energy and physical density
connect.
Through the unity of the
two, spiritual and physical,
transformation can happen.
With just one, nothing happens.
It is through the
interaction and union
of two different energies
that transformation happens.
Each brings in a
different frequency.
Energy from source is a
high vibration frequency.
It hit the physical,
which is governed
by another frequency level,
the Fibonacci or golden ratio.
When these spiritual and
physical frequencies combine,
they generate a different
frequency altogether.
Our task is to
come into alignment
with the middle pillar,
the core of the atom, where
the fire of consciousness,
the seed of divinity resides.
When we do, it becomes a
quantum conscious event, that
penetrates the entire being.
It is a state of
pure bliss, where
the mind is completely empty.
The world around feels
like it disappears.
And we are one with divinity,
embodied in the flesh.
Is such a thing possible?
Yes.
There are well-documented
cases in Tibetan Buddhism,
for example, of what they
call the great perfection
or the rainbow body.
The rainbow body is
a transition state
of transcending the ephemeral
into the immortal body
of light.
This is a phenomenon where
the masters, who have fully
harnessed their consciousness
and will after many years
of devotion to
their practices, are
able to alchemically extract the
central fire from their atoms.
They draw this essence
together into one unified light
body, while discarding any
final impurities that remain.
As the central
fire is extracted,
the energy that holds the
space within the atoms
and between the atoms
is also extracted.
And that space between
things collapses.
All that remains is
a small pile of dust,
and maybe hair,
teeth, and nails,
depending on the level of
attainment of that master.
As the spirit and soul are
released with the light body,
observers report seeing
rainbows of light.
Kabbalistically, the rainbow
represents the full integration
of all the Sefirot
on the tree of life,
each emanating a different
color of the spectrum.
Only by being aware of ourselves
as spirit, which is infinite,
can we do this.
Only through understanding
numbers, frequency, rhythms,
sounds, words of power,
proper use of sacred geometry,
and Hado can we do this.
These are the fundamentals that
govern our ability to interact,
this level of reality.
Beyond having knowledge
of the concepts,
we must also understand how
to use them and put them
into practice, so that we
become masterful at using them.
That practice involves things
like hermetic applications,
Kabbalah, martial arts, ritual
mastery, prayer, meditation,
service, but also poetry,
art, dance, passion, love,
and joy in life.
This is about the way
we live life every day.
It becomes a way of life.
The only way to
reach that state is
by not having a comfort
zone, constantly
pushing the edge of
progression to the next level.
When we get too comfortable, we
get complacent and we stagnate.
When we're not progressing,
we're regressing.
There is no standing still.
Thus, on a true
path to mastery, we
are always pushing
our progression,
getting out of the comfort
zone, to take that next step.
Then integrate,
meaning implement,
so that we can become
proficient with that new skill
or practice, and then
continuing to step forward
to the next level.
We can harness these
energies from the inside out.
We can harness the secret fire.
Join me again, as we explore
the realms of consciousness
beyond the hologram.
I'm Dr. Theresa Bullard.
Thank you for
exploring the mysteries
of the universe with me in this
episode of "Mystery Teachings."
[MUSIC PLAYING]